Welcome everyone to the solution for a probability question number five.
So for this question it was the probability of seeing a car on the highway in 30 minutes is 0.9 5.
What is the probability of seeing a car on the highway in 10 minutes.
And in order to solve this question you need to assume a constant default probability.
So let's go ahead and explain a little more of how you could get the solution for this.
So let's go ahead and see the probability of seeing no car in 10 minutes is going to be peak.
So again relabeling the probability of p as the probability of seeing no car in 10 minutes.
Therefore the probability of seeing no car in 20 minutes is just p times P or P squared and the probability
of seeing no car in 30 minutes is going to be t p p times P which is P to the power of three or P-Q.
So we know that the probability of seeing at least one car in 30 minutes is going to be equal to one
minus the probability of seeing no current 30 minutes which is one minus P-Q.
So we know that equation is equal to 0.9 5.
And if we solve for P then we get p is equal to 0.37.
And now that we know the value of P we can plug it back in to solve for the probability of seeing a
single car in 10 minutes which is going to be to one of my espie or 0.6 three probability of seeing
a car in 10 minutes.
So this is a little tricky because you do have to assume there's some sort of default probability in
this time span.
Realistically that's not how you would actually approach this question because realistically you won't
have a default constant probability in real life but for the sake of this interview problem you should
have been hinted at that you had a default probability.
Sometimes this interview question is asked without that particular statement that there is a default
constant probability.
So if you ever have a question go ahead and make sure that you ask your interviewer.
What assumptions can I make here or do you go ahead and make the assumption that there's a constant
default probability and then you ask them if it's OK to make that assumption.
Because sometimes I've seen this interview a question asked in situations where they do not explicitly
tell you to assume the default probability.
You'll have to make that assumption on your own and explain it to the interviewer.
But once you've done that you can see here that mathematically it's actually pretty easy.
You just have to remember that the one minus P is going to be equal to the probability of seeing the
car where p then is probability of not seeing the car.
All right.
Hope that was helpful.
I'll see at the next lecture.